There is something to be said for breakfast.
If you take an early morning walk down Landour Bazaar, you might be fortunate
enough to see a very large cow standing in the foyer of a hotel, munching on a
succulent cabbage or cauliflower. The owner of the hotel has a soft spot for this
particular cow, and invites it in for breakfast every morning. Having had its fill, the
cow—very well-behaved—backs out of the shop and makes way for paying
customers.
I am not one of them. I prefer to have my breakfast at home—a fried egg, two or
three buttered toasts, a bit of bacon if I'm lucky, otherwise some fish pickle from the
south, followed by a cup of strong coffee—and I'm a happy man and can take the
rest of the day in my stride.
I don't think I have ever written a good story without a good breakfast. There are
of course, writers who do not eat before noon. Both they and their prose have a lean
and hungry look. Dickens was good at describing breakfasts and dinners—
especially Christmas repasts—and many of his most rounded characters were goodnatured
people who were fond of their food and drink—Mr Pickwick, the Cheeryble
brothers, Mr Weller senior, Captain Cuttle—as opposed to the half-starved
characters in the works of some other Victorian writers. And remember, Dickens
had an impoverished childhood. So I took it as a compliment when a little girl came
up to me the other day and said, 'Sir, you're Mr Pickwick!'
As a young man, I had a lean and hungry look. After all, I was often hungry.
Now, if I look like Pickwick, I take it as an achievement.
And all those breakfasts had something to do with it.
It's not only cows and early-to-rise writers who enjoy a good breakfast. Last
summer, Colonel Solomon was out taking his pet Labrador for an early morning
walk near Lal Tibba when a leopard sprang out of a thicket, seized the dog and made
off with it down the hillside. The dog did not even have time to yelp. Nor did the
Colonel. Suffering from shock, he left Landour the next day and has yet to return.
Another leopard—this time at the other end of Mussoorie— entered the Savoy
hotel at dawn, and finding nothing in the kitchen except chicken's feathers, moved
on to the billiard-room and there vented its frustration on the cloth of the billiardtable,
clawing it to shreds. The leopard was seen in various parts of the hotel before
it made off in the direction of the Ladies' Block.
Just a hungry leopard in search of a meal. But three days later, Nandu Jauhar, the
owner of the Savoy, found himself short of a lady housekeeper. Had she eloped with
the laundryman, or had she become a good breakfast for the leopard? We do not
know till this day.
English breakfasts, unlike continental breakfasts, are best enjoyed in India where
you don't have to rush off to catch a bus or a train or get to your office in time. You
can linger over your scrambled egg and marmalade on toast. What would breakfast
be without some honey or marmalade? You can have an excellent English breakfast
at the India International Centre, where I have spent many pleasant reflective
mornings... And a super breakfast at the Raj Mahal Hotel in Jaipur. But some hotels
give very inferior breakfasts, and I am afraid that certain Mussoorie establishments
are great offenders, specializing in singed omelettes and burnt toasts.