John Stuart Mill asks the readers “any person whose judgment is really deserving of confidence, how has it become so?”, He then answers that, “because he has kept his mind open to criticism of his opinions and conduct… to profit by as much of it as was just, and to expound to himself, and upon occasion to others, the fallacy of what was fallacious.” J.S. Mill tries to convey that we should value different perspectives without being arrogant of what others think and should learn from the views and opinions that are not the same as ours. For a brain to evolve, one must be allowed to think, listen and express freely. Free speech is a principle that supports an individual’s right to express their views and opinions without any of it being censored or stopped. Lately, free speech has been misused by campus students turning it into ‘Hate Speech’ which are targeted towards individuals/communities. Private universities that have their own set of regulations are starting to regulate free speech on campus to ensure safety for everyone, which essentially is a violation of an individual’s right to free speech. During the ‘Free Speech Week’ at UC Berkeley in 2017, Milo Yiannopoulos was rushed out of the campus because a group of students violently protested against him speaking on campus. He was condemned for his racist and misogynistic remarks against the stars of ‘Ghostbusters’ One should understand that free speech comes with the responsibility of being respectful towards others, irrespective of their background, and have the moral responsibility not to hurt someone. 
	Interestingly, in this case, the administration was trying to promote free speech on campus and organized a ‘free speech week’ event. The students and the members of the anti-fascist protesters turned to violence against him. Free speech on campus could hurt individuals, as well as community sentiments as most of it, is being turned into hate speech. The main problem the students and the campus administration face is the fact that they take offense easily. All the parties involved tend to value sentiments over logic. Free speech is an individual’s right, and when one makes any opinion public, they should contemplate the consequences it might have and how is it going to affect them and the people around them. In hindsight, people who have expressed hate towards a community or an individual,  have been treated in the same way by the people.
	The right to decide what one can hear also is an individual’s right, giving the individual an option of not listening to anything they do not like. It is an individual’s personal right to choose between what to believe in and no one is obliged to listen to anyone. If the students had given Mr. Yiannopoulos a chance to say what he thought, he might have changed, if not all, but some people’s opinions about him or any other relevant subject. The remarks he made were derogatory and hurtful but what he thinks should not affect anyone. Even if it affects anyone, it is the students’ responsibilities to convey to Mr. Yiannopoulos that what he said was not the best comment a public figure could make.
	I think that freedom of speech should be limited to an extent where it does not lead to any kind of violence and should only remain a reasonable discussion between a group of people. Violence can be inflicted very quickly in an insensitive environment, and violence is where we need regulations and laws, so people have no other option than having a healthy discussion. Government bodies should take control of any such situation if there were any to happen.
	The students and Mr. Yiannopoulos both need to understand that it is in no one’s favor to hurt someone. As the great Mahatma Gandhi has said “Violence is the weapon of the weak” It gives both the parties no advantage over anyone and is just a waste of their energy. We as social animals have some responsibilities that we need to take care of. In the future, if there were any thoughts which are perceived by a group of people to be hurtful or insensitive, both parties should have a healthy discussion about why they think differently and challenge each other’s opinions. This will not only be in favor of both of them, but it might also change their views and might educate them better.